Once upon a time, there was a man who had beautiful houses in the town and the countryside, dishes of gold and silver, embroidered furniture, and golden carriages.
But, by misfortune, this man had a blue beard: this rendered him so ugly and so terrible, that there was no one who did not flee before him.
One of his neighbors, a lady of status, had two perfectly beautiful daughters.
He asked her for one of them to marry and left her the choice of which she wanted to give him.
They didn’t want this at all, the two of them, and sent him back and forth between them, not able to resolve themselves to take a man who had a blue beard.
What further disgusted them was that he had already married several women and that they did not know what had become of these women.
Blue-Beard, to get to know them, took them with their mother and three or four of their friends, and some people of the neighborhood to one of his country houses where they stayed eight full days.
It was nothing but walks, hunting and fishing parties, dances and feasts, lunches: they didn’t sleep at all and they passed all the night playing pranks on one another; at last everything went so well that the youngest started to find that the master of the house didn’t have a beard as blue, and that here was a good honest man. Once they made the return to the town, the marriage was finalized.
After a month, Bluebeard said to his wife that he was obligated to make a journey to the countryside for at least six weeks, for an important matter; that he hoped she would amuse herself during his absence; that she would bring her good friends; that she would take them to the country, if she wanted; that she would make merry everywhere.
"Here," he told her, "the keys to the big cabinets; here are those for the gold and silver dishes that aren't used every day; here are those for my safe where my gold and money are; those for my boxes where my gems are, and here is the master-key to all the apartments.
As for this little key here, this is the key to the office at the end of the great hall in the lower apartment: every everything, go everywhere; but, for this little closet, I forbid you to enter it, and I forbid you in such a manner that, if you do happen to open it, there is nothing you should not expect from my rage."
She promised to follow exactly what she had just been ordered, and he climbed in his carriage, and departed on his journey.