there was once a man who had beautiful houses to the town and to the countryside , of the dishes of gold and of silver , some embroidered furniture , and some golden carriages everything . But , by misfortune , this man had the blue beard : this made it so ugly and so terrible , that there was not anyone who not if fled of before her . One of his neighbors , lady of quality , had two girls perfectly beautiful . He asked her one in marriage in leaving her the choice of this that she wanted her give . They not want any both two and herself sent it the one to the other , not able herself resolve to take a man who had the blue beard . That who disgusted it again , that is that he had already married many women , and that they know not that that these women were became . The blue beard , for do acquaintance , took it , with their mother and three or four of their friends , and some people of neighborhood , to one of his houses of countryside , where they lived eight whole days . That were not that walks , that parties of hunting and of fishing , that dances and feasts , that lunches : they slept not any and they spent all the night to herself do some mischief the each to others ; finally everything went so well that the youngest began to find that the master of abode had not more the beard as blue , and that that was a strong honest man . From that they was to return to the town , the marriage herself finalized . To end of a month , the blue beard said to his wife that he was obligated to do a journey in countryside , of six weeks to least , for one matter of consequence ; that he the hoped of herself well entertain during his absence ; that she did come his good friends ; that she the take to the countryside , so she wanted ; that everywhere she did good expensive . " here , said her he , the keys some two big cabinet ; here these of the dishes of gold and of silver , who not used not all the days ; here these of my strong chests where is my gold and my silver ; these some treasuries where are my jewels , and here the master key of all the apartments . For this little key here , that is the key of office to end of the big gallery of the low apartment : open everything , go everywhere ; but , for that little office , I forbid you to enter there , and I forbid you it such manner that , if he arrives you of the open , there not there has nothing that you must not expect of my anger . " she promised to follow exactly everything that who had her to be ordered , and her climb his carriage , and departed for his journey .